---

layout: post
title:  "Briefs, in brief"
date:  2019-01-05 00:00:00 +0000
nav-class: blog
categories: breifs
keywords: briefs
description: Briefs are an essential part of a design project. We need them to define the scope and make a plan.
image:
imagecaption: 
excerpt:  No design project should start without a well formed brief, from the simplest icon to the most advanced space shuttle. We need them to define the scope and make a plan. 

---

Briefs nail down our thinking and provide a simple point of reference for everyone throughout the project. They’ll stop a project drifting off course. They should be short (brief!) and easy to understand. Aim for one side of a piece of A4.

A good brief will also form part of a contract, formally or informally.

A brief isn’t a lengthy technical spec. Trying to conjure one up front wastes time on a useless document that no-one reads, all full of guesswork and fantasy. No one wants that.

Before writing a brief we need to do our homework. This might require a period of research to gain customer-centric insights.

## What to put in a brief

In an ideal world, a brief would magically appear at the start of any project. Most of the time though, designers need to help write them. Here’s what needs to go in.

**Problem statement** — Define the current state of play. What’s the problem to solve? This may require a deep understanding of unmet user needs - not what they’ve asked for.

**End goal** — Think of this from an end user’s viewpoint—not an organisation or a product.

**Work to be done** — Write this as a simple task. Design projects may be open ended—we might need to figure out exactly what we’re making and stay flexible as a project proceeds. Narrow in scope but broad in creativity.

**Timings** — Key dates. Deliverables. Presentations and prototypes.

**Supporting info** — Point to reports and other reference materials needed to get started.